---
layout: page
permalink: /teaching/math-499v599v/
title: Mathematical Foundations of Machine Learning
description: Course details, syllabus, and materials for MATH 499v and MATH 599v.
---

### Course Description
This is an introductory course to Machine Learning (ML). ML is a powerful technique widely used in data-driven areas such as language processing, face recognition, image segmentation, banking, finance, insurance, drug discovery, engineering, etc. 
We will commence with an introduction to Python, highlighting prominent packages and standard datasets pivotal to the field. As we delve deeper, students will be introduced to a range of ML algorithms such as linear regression, logistic regression, k-means, k-nearest neighbors (KNN), support vector machine (SVM), Na"ive Bayes, Hopfield Network, decision trees, random forest, gradient boosting tree, deep neural networks (artificial neural network, ANN), graph neural networks, and manifold learning techniques.

### Course Content
- [Introduction to Machine Learning](lec1)
- [Data Preprocessing](lec2)

### Course Materials
We have made the code, homework, and lab materials for this course available in the UARK GitLab repository. Access to UARK's GitLab requires either a VPN or on-campus connection, along with a UARK account. You can access the repository [here](https://git.uark.edu/jiahuic/math-499v-599v-mfml) if you are one of the students in my class or a UARK colleague interested in this course. If you're interested in accessing this repository and are not part of the UARK community, please email me at jiahuic@uark.edu.
